👾 Merge "project structure" module with "Code Reviews" (#28)
nosportugal/nos-lp-foundations: 05_assessing_code_quality/1_project_structure.md

# Project Structure

## What is software design

> The goal of software architecture is to minimize the human resource required to build and maintain software systems. If the effort required to maintain a system grows with time, then the design is bad. If it's constant or shrinks with time, then the design is bad.

Reviewer: [change] I am not sure that the last sentence is correct. If effort increases it's bad. If it stays constant or shrinks is good

Author: ```suggestion
The goal of software architecture is to minimize the human resources required to build and maintain software systems. If the effort required to maintain a system grows with time, then the design is bad. If it's constant or shrinks with time, then the design is good.
```

Ops!

### 3. Make things modular

Remember when we said programmers see each new requirement as a new puzzle piece that they must be fit into a puzzle that grow more and more complex?

The solution is to make the puzzle pieces interchangeable. If your puzzle is make only of square pieces, then you can easily swap them around. But if your puzzle is made of pieces of different shapes, then it's considerable harder.

The same applies to your code. If you can swap parts of your code with ease, then your code is modular.

A good strategy is to make your code modular is to think about it as LEGO blocks. Each block should be self-contained and have a single responsibility. Then you have an "entrypoint" (i.e. the main script) that connects the blocks together.

#### What is a "responsibility"?

A responsibility is a reason to change.

As an example, consider a function/module/class that compiles and prints a report. This piece of code can be changed for two reasons:

1. The content of the report could change.
2. The format of the report could change.

> That means that it currently contain two separate responsibilities. Because they are together, if there is a change to the report compilation process, there is a greater danger that the printing code will break. And vice-versa.

Reviewer: [change] I don't think this is very clear. We have a module that does two actions and has two ways of changing. It is not clear which of these are the responsibilities. 
"two separate responsibilities. Because they are together" is not very congruent. 
It is not clear from the text why breaking the compilation should mean an increased danger of breaking the printing code.

Author: O que achas desta alternativa?

```suggestion
That means that it currently contain two separate responsibilities. Because they are together, they may share some state or variables - this means the responsibilities are **coupled** by this shared state.

In our puzzle metaphor, two coupled components are like two puzzle pieces with tabs so unique that can only connect with each other,

Imagine this scenario:  you need to change the order of the report section;  but that caused a variable that was also being used to create the content to change therefore breaking how the content was created. The closer 2 responsibilities are to one another the higher are the chances for that to happen.
```

Reviewer: está melhor. ainda assim acho que dizer "separate" seguido de "together" é um pouco confuso. eu apagava a palavra "separate".

## References for project structure

Now that we know what is a good project structure, let's see some references to inspire us. Note how you can easily tell what the project does just by looking at the project structure.

### Cookiecutter Data Science (0h15)

[Link to Cookiecutter Data Science](https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/)

The Cookiecutter Data Science project is a template for data science projects. It's a good starting point for many projects. It's opinionated, but all its opinions are justified.

After this lesson you should:

- Have a reference on how to layout projects involving data flows.

### Python application layouts (0h15)

![RealPython cover](../images/ba19cadbefac3e8cbea6ab6829321d377e981efc409395804470873bec7e432a.png)

> [Link to RealPython guide](https://realpython.com/python-application-layouts/)

Reviewer: [nitpick] This link requires login

Author: I think they only require it after a given number of visits. You can still open in anonymous mode.

The login doesn't require a paid membership, so I think we're ok.

This is an useful reference guide for Python application layouts. Although it's not a tutorial, it's a good piece to keep for future reference.

> Note that the guide is from 2018, so we still see references of files that are now (in 2022) being replaced by the `pyproject.toml` configuration file (which replaces the `requirements.txt`, `MANIFEST.in` and `setup.py` files)

Reviewer: [nitpick] I know this isn't very constructive from me, because I do not have any other alternative link to replace this one. However, if it is possible it would make sense to include a guide that references pyproject.toml based project building to be more up to date

Author: ```suggestion
Note that the guide is from 2018, so we still see references of files that are now (in 2022) being replaced by the [`pyproject.toml` configuration file](./../01_clean_code/1_long_code_is_not_good_code/2_pyproject.md) (which replaces the `requirements.txt`, `MANIFEST.in` and `setup.py` files)
```

No worries, we got that covered!
